# PyrEval

PyrEval  Copyright (C) 2017 Yanjun Gao


This is the package for running PyrEval. 

[Here](https://youtu.be/i_wdH3__urY) is a demo presented in CLIEDE2017. Please cite this paper if you use our code.
[1] Gao, Yanjun, Andrew Warner, and Rebecca J. Passonneau. "Pyreval: An automated method for summary content analysis." Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC). 2018.

## Introduction 
PyrEval is a tool to construct a content model of semantically coherent units discovered from a small sample of expert reference summaries of one or more source texts, and to apply the content model to automatically evaluate the content of new summaries. It automates a manual method that was developed over a decade ago [1], and found to be extremely reliable [2, 3]. The tool is aimed at two audiences. It can help educators evaluate students’ summaries for content; this is important because summarization is a commonly used vehicle to teach reading and writing skills, and to assess students’ knowledge of content [4, 5]. It can also be used in evaluation of automated summarizers [5]. 

## Installation Requirement 
1. Python 2.7 (or Anaconda2)
2. Perl
3. Stanford CoreNLP System[6], see download https://stanfordnlp.github.io/CoreNLP/index.html. 
4. Python Pacakges: nltk (punkt required to be installed), glob, sklearn, bs4, lxml, numpy, scipy, networkx, statistics

## Data Requirement 
4 to 5 human-written summaries in plain text files (referred throughout as “wise crowd” summaries); any number of summaries to score (referred throughout as “peer” summaries) 


## Components and Directories
This package contains two major components: Build the pyramid and Score the peer summaries by the pyramid.  

Here is an explanation of 4 folders under PyrEval. 
- Preprocess: For preprocessing your raw texts(step 0 and 1). They will be proprocessed by Stanford CoreNLP system and vectorizations. 
- Pyramid: For preprocessed model summaries(step 2). We build the pyramid from model summaries under wise_crowd. And output the pyramid for future use. 
- Scoring: For scoring peer summaries by the pyramid(step3).  
- ext: log files(you probably don't want to look at them) 

## HOW TO USE (Recommended)

PyrEval comes with a launcher program for ease of use. The launcher is stable but experimental, so if you experience problems you should resort to manual use (instructions below).

### Launcher Preparation

You must place your summary text files in the `Raw` folder in PyrEval's directory.

1. Place model summaries in `Raw/model`.
2. Place peer summaries in `Raw/peers`.

The Stanford CoreNLP System must be extracted to the `Stanford` folder in PyrEval's directory.

At this time, the launcher allows you to specify your Python executable, but you must have `java` and `perl` executables on your system path.

### Usage

#### 1. Launch the launcher with `<python_exec> pyreval.py`.

`<python_exec>` is your system's python interpreter. Normal usage is `python pyreval.py`.

#### 2. Set your Python interpreter (if needed) using the `i` command.

The `i` command lets you set a custom Python interpreter. The default setting is `python`. You may wish to manually specify your Python interpeter if you do not have `python` on your path or if you wish to use another Python installation on your system. What you type after `i` will be called exactly as though it were typed on the command line.

Example: Renamed Python executable (e.g., homebrew)
```
>>> i python2
```

Example: py launcher with options (e.g., Windows)
```
>>> i py -2
```

At this time, the launcher does not remember your interpreter preference. You must set it each time you run the launcher.

#### 3. Run PyrEval commands

Once you have set your interpreter, you are ready to run PyrEval. You run PyrEval commands by typing the number of the command you wish to run. E.g.,

```
>>> 1
...
>>> 2
...
>>> 3
...
>>> 4
...
>>> 5
```

Typing `0` (automatic mode) will run through each of the 5 PyrEval steps in sequence. It is equivalent to running the `1`, `2`, `3`, `4`, and `5` commands in order. It is not recommended that you use automatic mode for your first run of PyrEval in case there are errors, but once you are confident that the PyrEval toolchain is running correctly, automatic mode is a convenient way to run through each step in sequence.

#### 3b. Command flags

The fifth PyrEval step (scoring) supports various command line flags (see below sections on manual operation). You may use these flags just as you would on the command line. E.g.,

```
>>> 5 -t
```

In automatic mode, any flags passed will be forwarded to the scoring step ONLY. E.g., 
```
>>> 0 -t
```

#### 4. Clean directories

**WARNING**: Running the clean command will delete *all* files generated by PyrEval, including the results file. If you wish to save your results, save them to a different directory before cleaning. The clean command will not delete your raw text files (`Raw/model`; `Raw/peers`), but it MAY delete other files you place in other directories. Please back up your files, and use this command at your own risk.

Typing `c` will clean the PyrEval directories of all files generated by the toolchain. It will not delete your original text input files. This is useful for performing a "clean run," and the most common use for this command to clean all of the directories of the previous data before running on new input files. As of right now, if you do not clean in this case, PyrEval will incorrectly merge the previous data with your new data, producing incorrect results.

It is a known issue that this command will occasionally throw an error when attempting to delete files that were never generated. It is safe to ignore this error and assume the cleaning was performed correctly.

#### 5. Exit

To exit the PyrEval launcher, simply press `<Enter/Return>` with no input.

## HOW TO USE (Manual)

### Step 00(If your data is already one sentence per line and special characters removed, you don’t need this step): Split your documents into lines and clean up. Using the sciprt split-sent.py as following: 

```
python split-sent.py path_to_raw_text path_to_output
```
This step has to be done twice, once for wise crowd summaries, once for peer summaries.

### Step 0: Download and Run Stanford CoreNLP to get the preprocess xml files, see download link above.Unpack the file you will get a folder. This step has to be done twice, once for wise crowd summaries, once for peer summaries
 
Copy stanford.py to the Stanford CoreNLP folder, then run command: 
```
python stanford.py path_to_raw_text mode path_to_PyrEval
```
where mode: 1: peer summries; 2: wise_crowd_summaries. 
E.g: 
```
python stanford.py Users\blah\raw_text 2 Users\blah\PyrEval 
```

### Step 1: Preprocess files for sentence vectorizations 
We are using vectorizations method by WTMF, created by Weiwei Guo. [7][8]

cd to Preprocess directory, then run preprocess.py:
```
python preprocess.py mode 
``` 
where mode: 1: peer summries; 2: wise_crowd_summaries. 

### Step 2: Build Pyramid
The script will take input from Preprocess/wise_crowd_summaries/*, and output the pyramid as .pyr file to Pyramid/scu/. 

Locate to the Pyramid folder and run the script: 
```
python pyramid.py 
```
Output of Step 2 could be found in the following three places. The format of filename is: "pyramid_tSimilrityThreshold_aCoefficient_bCoefficient.suffix".  

- Pyramid/scu/*.pyr: A readable version of pyramid. The format of *.pyr is: 
```
SCU_index Weight Segment_Label
```

- Scoring/pyrs/pyramids/*.p: A raw(unreadable) pyramid used as input for scorng the peer summaries.  

- Scoring/size/*.size: An overview of size of each layer in the pyramid. Sorted from top to the bottom. 


### Step 3: Score the peer summaries 
This step will take preprocessed peer summaries under Preprocess/peer_summaries/ and your selected pyramid as input and generate the scores. Switch to Scoring folder and run the script: 
```
python scoring.py -options
```

-options:

-p <path/to/pyramid or pyramids>

-a print verbose

-t print scoring table

-o specify output (default is '../results.csv')

-l specify path for log file (default is "../log")


Eg:
```
python scoring.py -p pyramids/ -a -t -o my_results.csv -l log
```

Where the selected_pyramid could be found in Scoring/pyrs/pyramids/*.p. 

Output of Step 3 is a .csv file, located under PyrEval. 


## Reference
[1] Nenkova, Ani and Rebecca J. Passonneau. Evaluating content selection in summarization: The Pyramid Method. Joint Annual Meeting of Human Language Technology and the North American chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (HLT/NAACL). Boston, MA. June, 2004.

[2] Nenkova, Ani, Rebecca J. Passonneau, and Kathleen McKeown. "The pyramid method: Incorporating human content selection variation in summarization evaluation." ACM Transactions on Speech and Language Processing (TSLP) 4.2 (2007): 4.

[3] Passonneau, Rebecca J. 2010. Formal and functional assessment of the pyramid method for summary content evaluation. Natural Language Engineering 16:107-131. Copyright Cambridge University Press.

[4] Passonneau, Rebecca J., et al. "Wise Crowd Content Assessment and Educational Rubrics." International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education (2016): 1-27.

[5] Yang, Qian, Rebecca J. Passonneau, and Gerard de Melo. "PEAK: Pyramid Evaluation via Automated Knowledge Extraction." AAAI. 2016.

[6] Manning, Christopher D., Mihai Surdeanu, John Bauer, Jenny Finkel, Steven J. Bethard, and David McClosky. 2014. The Stanford CoreNLP Natural Language Processing Toolkit In Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: System Demonstrations, pp. 55-60.

[7] Weiwei Guo, Wei Liu and Mona Diab. "Fast Tweet Retrieval with Compact Binary Codes". In Proceedings of COLING, 2014, Dublin, Ireland.

[8] Weiwei Guo and Mona Diab. "Modeling Sentences in the Latent Space". In Proceedings of ACL, 2012, Jeju, Korea.
